In our little basic first application we're working on, where we added a couple of components,
we covered a lot of key aspects of a basic Angular app, how it starts and how to use components,
the base building block of any Angular app. But thus far, we only output static content,
the server component here, that's not super interesting,
we did even more than that in the first section of this course.
So let's change this to output some data which is kind of dynamic at least, which is not hardcoded into
the template,
time for some data binding. What is data binding?
You could basically translate data binding with communication. Communication between your TypeScript code
of your component, your business logic and the template, so what the user sees because you might have
some result in your TypeScript code because you fetched something from a server or finished some calculation
which you want to display to the user
and the only thing the user sees is the template.
So we need some kind of communication between both pieces to be able to really do something in
our app, that is where data binding comes into play because it is responsible for this communication.
We get different ways of communication now, for example we want to output data from our TypeScript code
in the HTML code in the template. We can use string interpolation for this,
you saw this in the first section of course, it's the syntax with the double curly braces and then
some property name or some expression in between or property binding. We will have a closer look at all
these forms of course in the next lectures, so we will learn what this then is and how it works. The
syntax basically uses these strange square brackets around HTML attributes
but again, I will come back to this.
Sometimes though, the other direction is interesting too,
if the user clicks a button, you can kind of think of the user clicking the button on the template because
again, the template is the thing with which the user interacts, which he sees and where he is also able to
click buttons.
So if we click a button, we maybe want to trigger something in our TypeScript code,
so now we need the other direction and we can get this other direction,
we can react to user events with event binding. So we can bind to for example a click event to execute
some code whenever it occurs
and we also have one additional form of data binding where we combine both directions, two-way data binding,
where we are able to react events and output something at the same time. Might not be super clear how
this works
but that is what you will now have a detailed look at all four forms in the next lectures.